it's been 40 years since the
disappearance of hercules
the bear who's that don't worry i've
never heard of him either
but recently i was flicking through old
weird and wonderful news articles and
came across this somewhat
unbelievable story so who was hercules
what was his life like
and how did he become scottish media
icon for a whole generation
well he was born in 1975 at the highland
wildlife park in kingusi
and as a cub was swiftly bought for the
grand total
of 50 pounds these days that i'd get you
a great barbecue
back in the 70s a grizzly bear and the
man who bought the cub
ex-professional scottish wrestler andy
robin along with his wife maggie they
raised hercules
as their own that's to say domestically
no cages
no chains no distancing and just in case
this didn't seem bizarre enough
the bear lived on a human diet oh
chicken
spaghetti bolognese and every now and
then addie would even walk hercules down
to the local pub
for a pint just the bare necessities
then
within a year the baby bear had grown to
a weight of 30
stone believing this yet it gets weirder
you see andy had bought the bear with
the intention of taking him along
on his uk wrestling tour to play fight
with him as part
of the show you know as you do and after
many successful years on tour
hercules was promoted from wrestling
ring to television scream
appearing in adverts and making cameos
and films all over the country
hercules was living up but it wasn't
until his escapist adventure in the
western isles
that he was shot for worldwide fame so
what happened on august 20th 1980 while
filming an advert on the island of
verbecula hercules took a short break
with his adoptive father andy they went
for a wee swim
on the coast but hercules mistook the
open ocean for his home's backdoor
swimming pool
soon the current became unbearable
within a few minutes
he drifted out of sight then began a
24-day search
for the now eight-foot sixty stone
grizzly bear after over three weeks of
searching
andy and maggie were emotionally wrote
they just couldn't
bear it but a local from the island of
north eust some
15 miles away reported seeing the bear
just walking across the lures the lost
hercules was tracked down
shot with a tranquilizer dart and
airlifted by helicopter
to safety upon arrival andy and the team
discovered that hartley's had barely
made it
losing 15 stone the local islanders all
lent a hand in reviving the poor
hercules and reportedly
brought him 140 pints of milk soon
he'd made a full recovery and if you
think that's the end of hercules story
or just bear with me the grizzly went on
to appear in many more international
adverts
children's television shows and even
appeared in a james bond movie
and that's not all across his career
hercules appeared on the cover of time
magazine
received a personal telegram from ronald
reagan and even in 1981
was named scottish personality of the
year
don't know what that says about the
other nominees his career slowed down as
he moved into old age
and in 2001 hercules died of natural
causes at home
with his adoptive parents by his side
and there you go a little baby grizzly
cub
who went from local highland wildlife
park to worldwide fame
times have undoubtedly changed since the
1970s but hercules will always be
remembered for the joy he brought to the
global public
and his loving adoptive parents andy and
maggie
hercules the grizzly bear an unlikely
scottish celebrity
but a global mega star nonetheless